Saudi Arabia's role in the global economy.
Hello, everyone.
Did you know that one discovery changed Saudi Arabia forever?
Before the 1930s, it was a quiet desert economy.
But after oil was found, it transformed into a global energy leader.
Let's learn how this happened and what the country is doing to plan for the future.
Back in the early 20th century, Saudi Arabia's economy
relied on farming and welcoming pilgrims to holy sites.
Then, in 1938, something incredible happened.
Oil was discovered.
The first major oil well, called Damom number 7,
produced over 1,500 barrels of oil a day.
That's like finding a huge treasure chest underground.
This oil wealth allowed Saudi Arabia to build modern cities,
improve health care, and expand education.
Places like Riyadh grew into bustling hubs of activity.
In 1960, Saudi Arabia joined an important group called OPEC,
helping to shape global oil markets.
This gave the country a strong voice in energy discussions worldwide.
Oil has been great for Saudi Arabia, but it's not endless.
And using too much can harm the environment.
That's why the country is working hard to manage its resources wisely.
Saudi Arabia is using carbon capture to reduce pollution,
investing in clean energy projects like solar power,
participating in global efforts like the Paris Accord
to address climate change.
These steps help balance economic growth with caring for the planet.
Saudi Arabia, recognizing it can't rely on oil forever,
has launched Vision 2030 to create opportunities in jobs,
tourism, and technology.
Key initiatives include building tourist destinations,
like the Red Sea Project and cultural sites like Durya Gate,
investing in renewable energy with projects like the King of Dola Solar Park,
and launching the Saudi Green Initiative,
which aims to plant 10 billion trees and combat desertification.
This ambitious plan follows the country's remarkable journey
from a farming economy to a global energy leader,
paving the way for a sustainable future.